NelsonSiegelSvansson/README.md, before:

# Nelson-Siegel-Svannson algorithm
</br>

Popular algorithm for fitting a yield curve to obseved data. 

## Problem
Data on bond yields is usualy avalible only for a small set of maturities, while the user is normaly interested in a wider range of yields. 
  
## Solution
A popular solution is to try to describe the yields as curve with the maturity on the x-axis and the yield on the y-axis. This curve is selected in such a way as to fit the yields, that can be observed on the market. The Nelson-Siegel-Svannson model is a curve form that is flexible enough to approximate most real world scenairos.
The Nelson-Siegel-Svensson is a popular extension of the 4-parameter Nelson-Siegel method to 6 parameters. It is an algorithm for interpolatin/extrapolating the yield curve among other uses. The Scennson introduces two extra parameters to better fit the variety of shapes of either the instantaneous forward rate or yield curves that are observed in practice. A desirable property of the model is that it produces a smooth and well behaved forward rate curve. Another desirable property is the intuitive explanation of the parameters. beta0 is the long term interest rate and beta0+beta1 is the instantaneous short-term rate. To find the optimal value of the parameters, the Nelder-Mead simplex algorithm is used (Already implemented in the scipy package). The link to the optimization algorithm is Gao, F. and Han, L. Implementing the Nelder-Mead simplex algorithm with adaptive parameters. 2012. Computational Optimization and Applications. 51:1, pp. 259-277

<FORMULA FOR NSS HERE>

### Parameters

   - Observed yield rates `YieldVec`
   - Maturity of each observed yield `TimeVec`
   - Initial guess for parameters `beta0`, `beta1`, `beta2`, `beta3`, `labda0`, and `lambda1` 
   - Target maturities `TimeResultVec`

### Desired output
   - Calculated yield rates for maturities of interest `TimeResultVec`

## Getting started
The user is interested in the projected yield for government bonds with a maturity in 1,2,5,10,25,30, and 31 years. They have data on government bonds maturing in 
1,2,5,10, and 25 years. The calculated yield for those bonds are 0.39%, 0.61%, 1.66%, 2.58%, and 3.32%. 

  ```bash
from nelsonsiegelsvensson import *
import numpy as np

TimeVec = np.array([1,2,5,10,25])
YieldVec = np.array([0.0039, 0.0061, 0.0166, 0.0258, 0.0332])
beta0   = 0.1 # initial guess
beta1   = 0.1 # initial guess
beta2   = 0.1 # initial guess
beta3   = 0.1 # initial guess
lambda0 = 1 # initial guess
lambda1 = 1 # initial guess

TimeResultVec = np.array([1,2,5,10,25,30,31]) # Maturities for yields that we are interested in

## Implementation
OptiParam = NSSMinimize(beta0, beta1, beta2, beta3, lambda0, lambda1, TimeVec, YieldVec) # The Nelder-Mead simplex algorithem is used to find the parameters that result in a curve with the minimum residuals compared to the market data.

# Print the yield curve with optimal parameter to compare with the data provided
print(NelsonSiegelSvansson(TimeResultVec, OptiParam[0], OptiParam[1], OptiParam[2], OptiParam[3], OptiParam[4], OptiParam[5]))
```

Commit message:

Added formula for NSS
I hope that there is a better way to add formulas in GitHub

NelsonSiegelSvansson/README.md, after:

# Nelson-Siegel-Svannson algorithm
</br>

Popular algorithm for fitting a yield curve to obseved data. 

## Problem
Data on bond yields is usualy avalible only for a small set of maturities, while the user is normaly interested in a wider range of yields. 
  
## Solution
A popular solution is to try to describe the yields as curve with the maturity on the x-axis and the yield on the y-axis. This curve is selected in such a way as to fit the yields, that can be observed on the market. The Nelson-Siegel-Svannson model is a curve form that is flexible enough to approximate most real world scenairos.
The Nelson-Siegel-Svensson is a popular extension of the 4-parameter Nelson-Siegel method to 6 parameters. It is an algorithm for interpolatin/extrapolating the yield curve among other uses. The Scennson introduces two extra parameters to better fit the variety of shapes of either the instantaneous forward rate or yield curves that are observed in practice. A desirable property of the model is that it produces a smooth and well behaved forward rate curve. Another desirable property is the intuitive explanation of the parameters. beta0 is the long term interest rate and beta0+beta1 is the instantaneous short-term rate. To find the optimal value of the parameters, the Nelder-Mead simplex algorithm is used (Already implemented in the scipy package). The link to the optimization algorithm is Gao, F. and Han, L. Implementing the Nelder-Mead simplex algorithm with adaptive parameters. 2012. Computational Optimization and Applications. 51:1, pp. 259-277

The furmula for the yield curve (Value of the yield for a maturity at time 't') is given by the formula:

![formula](https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\r(t)=\beta_{1}) +
![formula](https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\beta_{2}\big(\frac{1-exp(\frac{-t}{\lambda_1})}{\frac{t}{\lambda_1}}\big)) +
![formula](https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\beta_{3}\big(\frac{1-exp(\frac{-t}{\lambda_1})}{\frac{t}{\lambda_1}}-exp(\frac{-t}{\lambda_1})\big)) +
![formula](https://render.githubusercontent.com/render/math?math=\beta_{4}\big(\frac{1-exp(\frac{-t}{\lambda_2})}{\frac{t}{\lambda_2}}-exp(\frac{-t}{\lambda_2})\big))


### Parameters

   - Observed yield rates `YieldVec`
   - Maturity of each observed yield `TimeVec`
   - Initial guess for parameters `beta0`, `beta1`, `beta2`, `beta3`, `labda0`, and `lambda1` 
   - Target maturities `TimeResultVec`

### Desired output
   - Calculated yield rates for maturities of interest `TimeResultVec`

## Getting started
The user is interested in the projected yield for government bonds with a maturity in 1,2,5,10,25,30, and 31 years. They have data on government bonds maturing in 
1,2,5,10, and 25 years. The calculated yield for those bonds are 0.39%, 0.61%, 1.66%, 2.58%, and 3.32%. 

  ```bash
from nelsonsiegelsvensson import *
import numpy as np

TimeVec = np.array([1,2,5,10,25])
YieldVec = np.array([0.0039, 0.0061, 0.0166, 0.0258, 0.0332])
beta0   = 0.1 # initial guess
beta1   = 0.1 # initial guess
beta2   = 0.1 # initial guess
beta3   = 0.1 # initial guess
lambda0 = 1 # initial guess
lambda1 = 1 # initial guess

TimeResultVec = np.array([1,2,5,10,25,30,31]) # Maturities for yields that we are interested in

## Implementation
OptiParam = NSSMinimize(beta0, beta1, beta2, beta3, lambda0, lambda1, TimeVec, YieldVec) # The Nelder-Mead simplex algorithem is used to find the parameters that result in a curve with the minimum residuals compared to the market data.

# Print the yield curve with optimal parameter to compare with the data provided
print(NelsonSiegelSvansson(TimeResultVec, OptiParam[0], OptiParam[1], OptiParam[2], OptiParam[3], OptiParam[4], OptiParam[5]))
```
